# **EigenFoundation Protocol Council Charter**

### *Adopted by Board Resolution of EigenFoundation on October 21, 2024*

*Last Revised on October 21, 2024*
#### **1. Authority**

The Protocol Council (the \"**Council**\") is a Council of the Board of
Directors (the "**Board**\") of the EigenFoundation (the
\"**Foundation**\"), established under Article 17 of the Articles of
Association of the Foundation and formalized pursuant to this Protocol
Council Charter as detailed herein (the \"**Charter**\").   

#### **2. Membership**

The Council will be comprised of up to eight (8) members (including the
chair of the Council (the \"**Chair**\"), which shall initially be Jeff
Commons, Principal Engineer of the Foundation) selected by the Board
based on each member's expertise in smart contract engineering and/or
security practices, the EigenLayer protocol, research and development in
one or more aspects of the EigenLayer ecosystem, and other contributions
to the EigenLayer community. The Foundation may implement eligibility
screening as part of the appointment process for any member.

The Board or the Council by majority vote may remove or replace any
member at any time, with immediate effect. Appointments to the Council
shall confer a six (6) month term ending on June 1st and December 1st
unless extended or otherwise provided by the Board. All Council members
are required to enter into a participation agreement with the Foundation
outlining their roles and responsibilities as members of the Council,
and as Signers (as defined below).  These roles and responsibilities
shall include complying with the Foundation's Key Management Policy &
Operating Procedures. The Board may fill vacancies on the Council from
time to time.  

Each Council member shall receive a number of EIGEN, USDC, or other
assets equivalent to USD \$15,000.00 for their Council participation
during or at the completion of any 6-month term. This amount shall be
subject to the terms and conditions, including any vesting and lock-up
schedules, determined advisable by the Board in its sole discretion. The
Foundation may approve a discretionary incentive payment to the Chair
and/or Council members from time to time.  

The Board may appoint natural persons or entities to serve as members of
the Council, and a prospective Council member may, instead of being
appointed by the Board in their personal capacity, direct that a legal
entity which they solely own and control be appointed to the Council in
their place.  

#### **3. Purpose**

The purposes of the Council are (i) to proactively safeguard protocol
security; (ii) to review proposed EigenLayer Improvement Proposals and
related upgrades ("**ELIPs**") to ensure they would do what they propose
to do, advance the Protocol and support the continued growth of the
EigenLayer ecosystem; and (iii) to support progressively decentralized
governance of the EigenLayer protocol, consistent with the end state
envisioned in section 10.

The Council shall have such other purposes, powers, and authorities as
may be delegated to it by the Board. 

The Council shall approve ELIPs only as would be consistent with its
purposes, the objectives of the Foundation as provided in its
constitutional documentation, and the principles set forth in their
participation agreement.   

#### **4. Duties and Responsibilities**

The Council shall undertake to proactively consider security measures
and review, and approve or reject, ELIPs impacting the design,
specification, and operation of the EigenLayer protocol. If the Council
determines to advance security or approve any ELIP, it shall undertake
to approve and execute upgrades and/or take such other administrative
actions for EigenLayer Core Contracts (as defined below) that are
required to give effect to the security measure or approved ELIP, while
complying with the Foundation\'s constitutional documents, this Charter,
and any applicable policies and bylaws. The Council shall solicit,
consider feedback, and report on security measures and ELIPs from and to
the EigenLayer community.

The Chair shall be responsible for convening meetings, keeping minutes,
sending Council approval notices to the Board prior to executing any
onchain transaction(s), and coordinating execution of transactions
necessary to give effect to approved ELIPs. The Chair shall convene a
meeting of the Council at the written request of a majority of the
members.

Any Council member that is a permanent resident of a non-U.S.
jurisdiction may act as the executor on any Council-approved Transaction
(as defined below) effected through the Council's multi-signature wallet
("**Multisig**") used to effect deployments, upgrades, and/or
administrative actions (each a "**Transaction**") with respect to the
EigenLayer Core Contracts identified in Exhibit A ("**EigenLayer Core
Contracts**"). The Chair shall coordinate the Council's approval and
execution of any Multisig Transaction only if the Council has previously
approved the Multisig Transaction and provided notice to the Board. In
the event that a Council-approved Multisig Transaction is not executed
timely, the Chair shall have the authority to instruct any Council
member to participate as approver or executor on the Multisig (each, a
"**Signer**"), in accordance with this Charter, the Foundation's
constitutional documents, and bylaws.

#### **5. Operations**

The Council will meet with such frequency as the Chair or it may
determine advisable, in accordance with the ELIP process and
requirements of EigenGov. Quorum for Council meetings shall be three (3)
Council members present in person or virtually save where there are only
two (2) Council members in place, in which case quorum for Council
meetings shall be (2) Council members present in person or virtually.

The Council's approval of any security upgrade, ELIP, or other Council
matter shall require a majority of the votes of the Council members
present. In the event the Chair declares an emergency and provides
immediate notice to the Board, the Chair may determine to treat any
Signer's participation on a Transaction as an affirmative vote for the
approved or executed Transaction. Each member shall be a key holder with
respect to the Council's Multisig Wallet. The threshold Signers required
for Transactions may be as few as three (3) members, unless the Chair
and/or Council determine to require a higher number of Signers. In the
event that the Council has fewer than three (3) members, the threshold
Signers required for Transactions shall be at least the number of
Council members. The Chair may appoint Foundation personnel to serve as
temporary Signers on terms and conditions decided by the Chair.   

The Council will regularly report to the Board on the Council's
actions.  

The Council may invite to its meetings non-Council members, including
any persons the Council deems appropriate in order to carry out its
responsibilities.  

#### **6. Conflicts of Interest**

Prior to exercising voting and/or Multisig authority, the Council must
review all relevant facts and circumstances among the members to
determine whether a material conflict of interest may arise due to a
member's family, social, financial, or professional interests
or relationships ("**Personal Interests**"). A conflict of interest
exists when a member's Personal Interests could compromise, or give the
appearance of compromising, the member's judgment, decisions, or
actions.

If a material conflict exists, the Council must take steps to ensure
that its voting decision is based solely on the best interests of the
Foundation and is not a product of such conflict. This may, and usually
would, require recusal of any conflicted Council member from voting on
the ELIP or Council matter.  

The Council, at its discretion, may take such other action in good faith
(in consultation with the Council\'s counsel, if necessary) which would
serve the best interests of the Foundation. 

#### **7. Budget**

The Council shall operate within the operating and service-provider
budget provided by the Board through at least a bi-annual resolution.

Should any budget allocate EIGEN or other tokens to the Council, any
Eigens or other tokens that are not expended will be returned to the
Foundation at the Foundation's election upon termination of the budget
period or Council. The Foundation shall maintain discretion, at all
times, to transfer or not to transfer Eigens as part of the Council
budget, and the Foundation may instruct the replacement of one or more
Signers for any or no reason, with or without notice.  

#### **8. Variation and Termination**

The Charter may be amended or terminated in writing by Board Resolution.

#### **9. Transparency**

The Charter's effective version shall be maintained in Github, along
with a dated version control (e.g., "Last revised as of \[date\]") at
the top of the document.

#### **10. End State for Progressive Decentralization**

The Council in its initial form is an important step towards responsible
decentralization of EigenLayer governance. However, progressive
decentralization will continue, and the ideal end state shares many of
the same goals outlined by Optimism's Security Council Charter, among
other projects, including that (i) no single party should be able to
change or upgrade the EigenLayer protocol; (ii) decentralized
participants should have mechanisms to organize themselves in accordance
with EigenGov rules, custody their own key(s), and use their keys
securely to effect Transactions dictated by the EigenLayer community,
through EigenGov; (iii) emergency powers should be limited and rarely
exercised, though a Council or other emergent organization may be
authorized, ex ante, to act on behalf of the community in exigent
circumstances; (iv) the influence and impact of malicious or negligent
actors are mitigated through cautious EigenGov design and
implementation; and ultimately, (vi) the Council in its current form
should be made obsolete, reflecting our commitment to responsible
decentralization and protocolized governance over time.

## **Exhibit A**

### **EigenLayer Core Contracts**

See the [eigenlayer-contracts repository](https://github.com/Layr-Labs/eigenlayer-contracts/blob/dev/README.md#deployments) for a comprehensive list of EigenLayer Core Contracts. This repository is used for much of the development of new EigenLayer protocol features, which is managed primarily by Eigen Labs.[contracts.md](/contracts.md). 
